well this is pretty phenomenal this is
Phil Heath here and what feel what
question I want to ask is obviously
you've won the Olympia I want to talk
about how mentally strong you have to
actually be to go through the entire
face the whole thing and actually win it
well you know I obviously believe that a
dream without a plan is a wish meeting
you know what you got to go out there
you got to give it your all but you have
to actually have a plan of action you
know with that plan I've learned how to
execute that very very well and
obviously every day in the gym is an
opportunity to grow get better as a
person but most importantly the mental
aspect I've been realizing that if it
was easy everybody would be good
happiness is always a choice and I and
no one's putting a gun up to my head to
do this so I've chose to be you know one
of the best bodybuilders in the world so
I had to make a plan to do that
redo that plan execute that plan to the
best of my ability
not be humble enough to look at myself
in the mirror and say did I train hard
enough was I actually mentally involved
invested into my process and the answer
sometimes yes sometimes is I could have
been better and still to this day I say
could you've been better and yes so I'm
at the mental aspect to be mr. Olympia
always has to have a little bit of ego
because without that you cannot be
walking around as the number one in the
world I mean you have to be able to say
you know I can do this beyond any
distraction beyond any person that says
you can't do it or that you suck or
whatever it may be you have to own it
inside and say here's the matter what
anybody else thinks because on paper I
know I can be the best and for me it's
like I know I'm the best I don't have to
remind anybody but I have to prove it
every year at the Olympia yeah so my
approach going into it is that I've
already done this twice I should be able
to do it again because I have the
blueprint but I just have to finally
execute it no matter what distraction
and does everything always go to plan so
yes or no I mean yes because I won no
because there's always something that
gets thrown in your body is very dynamic
so you can be training you can get hurt
while you're training you can be eating
something either get sick or maybe your
body doesn't respond the way that you
had hoped it would because maybe your
body just gets a resistant to that
different type of food that's where
being a coach of yourself
plays a huge role or hiring a coach
because you're supposed to make those
adjustments to be able to switch gears
at a drop of a dime and then be able to
make those adjustments accordingly so
then you can achieve what which is
winning so so for me you know it's I
almost laughed because I think to myself
well I know what I have to do yeah but I
but I can't always reinvent the wheel
either I always have to make sure that
everything I do has a purpose and when
you did win what did it feel like I know
it's hard to summarize it up but was it
expected did you have that in your mind
yeah I'm going to win this or did it
come out the blue what did they actually
feel like the moment it happened well I
would say like this in 2008 I thought I
had a chance I got third I was very
excited about that because I knew that
history had been made
no rookie at the time in over ten years
had done that thinking in 15 years
following your I was thinking I was
gonna win got fifth got sick very
disappointing that following here got
second I knew what that feeling don't
like then the following year after that
in 2011 I won obviously your whole world
flash before your eyes your whole career
flashes before your eyes you realize all
the pain and suffering that the ups and
downs
it was definitely well worth it and then
defending you learn more about who you
are and I was tested very well by all
the competitors especially Kai Green but
it allowed me to realize that the
pressure is always going to be there
it's how I adjust to it and how I let it
affect me make me win or lose right
thank you very much it's been awesome
enjoy the day it's really nice to meet
you as well
thank you